
# MineGuider editor

This repository contains the source code of a plugin developed in the **Mineguide** project that allows the extension of the **PMApp Process Mining Application** with the **MineGuider editor**.

This software is a research result of the **MINEGUIDE** project. The **MINEGUIDE** and **MINEGRAPH** projects make up the **SUPPORT4LHS** coordinated project (*PROCESS MINING AND KNOWLEDGE REPRESENTATION TECHNOLOGIES TO SUPPORT THE LEARNING HEALTH SYSTEM*). The research in these projects is supported through grants **PID2020-113723RB-C21 and PID2020-113723RB-C22 funded by MCIN/AEI/10.13039/501100011033.**

Process mining technologies are the cornerstone of the **SUPPORT4LHS** project, which primarily seeks to exploit Electronic Health Record (EHR) data to promote the generation of new knowledge and the innovation in healthcare through clinical process discovery. Such exploitation of EHR data must be done ensuring that EHR and process mining technologies connect in a way that provides for a reliable and meaningful exchange of information (which has been coined as EHR meaningful use in the US). For this purpose information models/standards and knowledge models play a fundamental role, to the extent that they provide a formal and shared understanding of clinical knowledge. Beyond this, knowledge-intensive models such as knowledge graphs and clinical guideline models can be exploited for a more effective process mining from EHR data. The SUPPORT4LHS project covers these three pillars: process mining in healthcare, information and knowledge models in healthcare (including knowledge graphs and ontologies), and clinical guideline models.

The contribution to the LHS is jointly addressed by the **MINEGUIDE** and **MINEGRAPH** projects, which complement each other and are required to achieve the full range of objectives. On one hand, the **MINEGUIDE** project applies a data perspective, and has as main focus the development of new process mining methods for the discovery of clinical processes useful for the LHS, as well as the design of a framework integrating process mining models and clinical guideline ones. On the other hand, the **MINEGRAPH** project takes a knowledge perspective, and has the focus on the development of methods based on knowledge graphs for the extraction, interoperability and analysis of process mining models and clinical guideline models. 


